# Project Prohora 


## Website features: 

### Search bar and carousel animation:
 Search bar will allow to access information much 
more effectively. The carousel animation will show alarming areas which are/maybe get 
effected by flood! 
### Home:
 basic information about the website and our project. Impacts of the project to 
fight against climate change and flood. 
### Climate:
 The Climate Menu provides valuable information about the current state of 
global climate change. Reason, impact of climate change. Also it’ll helps to raise 
awareness about climate change and outlines the necessary steps to combat global 
warming and climate change. 
### Maps and Flood:
 This section offers up-to-date information on floods occurring in 
various regions in Bangladesh, along with visual representations (using Maps 
representation) to provide comprehensive insights. For example it’ll provide water level 
status of predefined river areas. All information will be generated by using NASA 
whether api’s. And it will run scheduler for updating information (update in every 1 
hours in case of flood and rainy monsoon, else it’ll update in every 6 hours). 
Furthermore, based on the information it’ll send a push notification to the IOT device 
and the alarm system will turn on. 
### Gender Equity:
 To ensure gender equality, this section will help especially children and 
women in areas affected by climate change and floods. It will provide comprehensive 
content for women’s and children’s health. 
### Help and Contact:
 Will have all emergency contacts and a Chabot in case of accessing 
website information much more efficiently. In addition from here all kinds of relief 
information and immediate contact with Prohora team can be done. 


## IOT Device: 

### GSM sim module:
 Will be using gsm sim800L module to get push notifications from the 
website backend API. Also it’ll send messages to the fire fighter and local disaster 
management authority in case of flood. 
### ESP8266 microcontroller: 
This microcontroller will be the center processing unit of our 
IOT Alarm system. 
### Active buzzer: 
Active buzzer will be used to control the alarm volume. As this kinds of 
buzzer can work with PWM pinout. 
### Water Sensor and Ultrasonic Senor: 
This two sensors will monitor the water level rise and will provide information to the microcontroller. 
### 3.7 rechargabel ION battery:
 Main power supply for the IOT device. 
### Voltage regulator:
 In case of stepping down the voltage for the microcontroller. 
### Inflatable boat and First aid: 
An inflatable boat with first aid kits will be available if the 
flood hits the area as an immediate rescue.


## Rural environment: 
For demonstration purpose we are creating a dummy rural environment to show how the IOT device will works. 


## Mobile Application:
 Dashboard- 

### Climate:
 Same information as website. 
### Maps and Flood:
Map and list view of different water level areas. List view will 
provide extra information’s as well. Some graph view of water level information 
of the selected area of last 7 days.  
### Children’s health: 
Description about children’s health and awareness to fight 
against climate change and flood moment. 
### Gender Equity: 
Same as website information to decrease gender discrimination. 
### Alarming areas: 
list of alarming areas with location and water level situation. 
### Help and Contact: 
same as website.